---
title: Regarding the iCloud Photo Library 
layout: post
---

I love the new iCloud Photo Library. I fear it. I hate it. Grr! It's complicated. 

I entered into the *iPhlib*-beta as soon as it became available with iOS 8.1, enabling it on my iPod touch, iPad Air and iPhone 6. Not feeling particularly suicidal that day, I flipped the singular settings switch to "keep the original" copy of each uploaded photo and video on the device instead of deleting it as soon as it has been whisked up and away into the clouds. 

I'm amazed how flawlessly it combines these three devices full of photos, totaling about 20GB, into one coherent location. I was less amused when the "keep original" option meant it actually downloaded all this data onto each device. Now there's a 20 Gig chunk missing from each of my devices and even switching back to the "optimize space" option has yet to cut back on the waste. And there doesn't seem to be an easy or safe way to clear the local cache without deleting the pictures from the stream. 

Another thing that's missing is a way of preventing a picture from uploading, or at least from showing up in the main library. Take a picture while connected to a wifi and oh, see it go and appear on every device, even if it's a blurry picture of that itching patch on your backside that you took because you didn't have a pair of mirrors at hand. This may even be more of a problem with families that have enabled iCloud Family Sharing, but I don't know if that's how it works. The family thing. The family sharing thing. 

What I'm dreading most though is what I was excited about most in the first place: Photos.app for Yosemite, a singular one stop shop for all you photo needs, boasting full RAW compatibility, and full quality sync of *everything*, which at first sounds awesome, until you put your ear to your internet cable, where you can already hear the faint incantations of the TCP/IP Monks, praying for mercy and a swift death on the mystical day the App drops. I have 80 gigs of dslr photos in (sigh) Aperture and I wouldn't even call myself prolific, just very bad at throwing away photos. It would be great if I could prevent upload based on rating and the rejection flag (I may be bad at cleaning up but I am no savage), but I fear that star-ratings and rejection flags will not supplant the ❤️/no ❤️ flag that's currently in iPhlib. 

Duplicate rejection will be another thing I hope Apple has gotten right on the first try. It seemed to work well enough with pictures synced via the archaic iCloud Photo Stream technology. As I am an obedient citizen raised during the iThings era, I used the Mac as the hub for my digital life™, which means all devices were regularly synced to the mothership every couple of months. But sometimes a picture took a more esoteric route before ending up in the fold, where it may have picked up meta data differing profoundly from the copy on the source device. As a result, there'd be no way iPhlib could determine identity without actually, *literally*, looking at the whole picture. Something (*cough iTunes show duplicates cough*) tells me there may be hardship, toil and wailing aplenty in our future dealing with pictures matched falsely by iPhlib both positive *and* negative. 

But, all in all, it's already a great feature with the potential to be the image storage, sync, and backup solution we all had been secretly dreaming apple would release since iPhoto 1.0, and it's bold of Apple to take these steps now, when so many things about the cloud are still up in the air, like privacy, end user cost and liability in case of failure. And rediscovering the photos of the Dresden floodings I took on the iPod a couple of years ago, or pictures of our now fully grown cat when he was a kitten, and effortlessly browsing them on the iPad's screen is worth weathering the growing pains and the *totally reasonable* price of the third-tier iCloud storage plan. I just hope Apple can find a better balance of user control, hassle, and automagicks in determining what goes where, and if it should go at all. 